# Utvardering 2021-12-11

## Tabellen med barn, by anonymous reviewer

Det fanns 'bara' två barn som var intervjuad.

 * Kursen:
   * Toppen:
     * Toppen med böcker
     * Oversätt bok
   * Tips:
     * Öva på presentation längre
     * För lite tid
     * Fler häften
     * Barnen hann inte riktigt
 * Vuxen:
   * Toppen:
     * Bra strikt
     * Svenska bra
   * Tips:
     * 2 lektioner pro vecka
 * Boken:
   * Toppen:
     * Bra längel
   * Tips:
     * Fler exampelproblem
     * Hjälp eller extra böcker
 * Siffror: 4.5 av 5 stjärna

## Interview with kids, by anonymous reviewer

Det fanns 'bara' två barn som var intervjuad.

 * In general, they wanted more time per lesson
   and more lessons
 * They did not feel that Richel's Swedish was a problem,
   except at the very start
 * They would like to have a larger group
 * They want to continue with this if possible
 * They wanted some type of material in booklets
   to help when they got stuck
 * They felt that the strictness helped
 * Other games than chess in the breaks
 * The 'Galenlektion' was not impressive but fun

## Interview and dialogs with parents, volunteers, visitors, two visiting kids, by Richel

 * Presentation was fun and relaxed; 
   the kids presenting came accross as relaxed,
   Richel did a good job at helping to make it fun
 * It was okay to have a presentation with 'only' two kids, over cancelling it;
   it was worth the time and trouble
 * It would be fine if the course starts at Jan 8th; the holiday is not
   a problem
 * It is possible to give homework to the kids, as the books can always 
   be borrowed. Kids already borrow booklets, but these are rarely
   actually used in their free time. Richel is reluctant to give the kids
   homework, as he thinks kids should preferable work at the course only,
   be free of it when at home.
 * There should be more kids, e.g. by visiting school classes, or events.
   Parents are willing to help, Richel will always help where he can.
 * It would have been useful as a non-parent audience to have gotten an
   idea what programming is, and how it works
 * Letting the kids take care of the guests (i.e. bring coffee, tea, cookies)
   is a fun and welcoming gesture
 * Richel put into perspective what can be expected of kids at their ages,
   with younger kids usually creating a 'work of art', the older kids
   re-creating a known game


## Interpretation by Richel

To summarize, I think the evaluations gives back that we do well now
and that growing (i.e. more kids) would help naturally improve the
course's awesomeness. 

The course's atmosphere is both disciplined and
light, which is also thanks to the polite kids we have currently (one 
rotten apple can indeed destroy a whole basket!). 4.5 out of 5 stars is
great, albeit this is given by 'only' two kids.

I do see some improvements:

 * Course
   * Let the kids start working on their presentation two months in advance,
     as per advice of the kids
   * The kids want extra help how to detect problems. I think making 
     the booklets longer is not a solution; viable solutions would be
     (1) discussing this more often, (2) let the kids bring their own
     logbook/notebook
 * Presentation:
   * To kill the time at the start of the presentation, 
     give the visitors a tour through the Uppsala Makerspace building
   * Let a first kid or volunteer show what coding is at the start of a
     presentation, to give laymen visitors an idea what we do here

Things I will ignore:

 * Extending the length (i.e. more hours per day), or the frequency (i.e.
   more days per week), is friendly feedback. I feel increasing the 
   frequency would harm the course: it would create more of a burden on the 
   volunteers and the course would be less special for the kids.
   Same thing with extending the time: 2 hours is short, so there is no time
   to waste. I enjoy the informal sense of urgency :-)

Focus should be on getting more kids.

